thank you to brilliant for sponsoring a
portion of this video the first 200
people to click the link in the
description will get 20
off the annual premium subscription
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose
all of this around me is going to be
pretty unfamiliar background to you guys
i'm actually visiting my family here in
jordan for the christmas holidays i've
got a little bit of a break from the
busy and hectic london on my way here i
posted a short story on my instagram
page that had my jordanian passport in
it and i got a whole bunch of questions
and engagement on that story about why
it is i'm going to or from jordan and
the reason is that i am jordanian i'm
jordanian by ethnicity i was born in
canada i grew up in greece then i
studied in canada again and i'm studying
in the uk so while i'm here i thought it
would be really fun to film a week in my
life in jordan i plan to do quite a lot
of fun and interesting activities over
the coming week and i want to take you
guys along with me the first thing that
i want to show you guys is our garden
the garden surrounding our house has
pretty much everything you can imagine
right behind me here we've got these
small oranges we've got a fig tree here
lemons over here we've even got a pomely
tree
that's not good definitely did not mean
to drop that
gonna go grab it real quick here it is
i mean it's a bit flat now got these
baby clementines olive trees
this over here is a bay leaf tree this
here is a
tree more grapes growing along the fence
walnut tree almond tree escadinha it's
an
actual hummingbird oh my god pistachio
tree
don't run away from me
my little kitty seems to me want to go
on an adventure
yeah do you want to go on a tour of the
house with everybody come what do you
want to show them should we show them
the living room sim
yeah did they see it simpson okay okay
you've had enough
all right off you go all right guys so
just came back from a quick trip to the
supermarket it's like i never left and
i'm sitting down editing this thursday's
video which is a
q a with ali abdul wow that was
definitely a bad time to pause but
i messaged him like a week or two ago
saying i don't think we ever uploaded
that q a it was supposed to go live
quite some time ago
so we're gonna sit down edit it and bang
it out now and that's what you guys have
probably seen a couple weeks ago so
anyways i'm just gonna set you guys down
over
here and get to work doing that because
there's quite a bit to do
[Music]
all right guys so just came back from
breakfast it was actually pretty decent
and actually ordered english breakfast i
don't know why i have that all the time
in the uk anyways in a little bit here i
actually have a palliative care
and breaking bad news tutorial and
workshop that i'm going to attend via
zoom on my laptop so i'm actually in the
middle of a theme week in between my
psychiatry blog and my a
e block have this theme week where we do
lectures and tutorials and things like
that
so i do still have to attend even if i'm
in a different country since i filmed
here
yesterday we have gotten a massive
monitor and some speakers here this was
actually a birthday present for my mom
but since i'm in this room while i'm
here i'm making use of it also
look at what i found in one of the
closets here story time
i was looking through a bunch of my old
stuff here in jordan that we brought
over from greece and i came across
this tub of pokemon cards and i remember
the tupperware
is the holy grail of my cards i opened
up this tupperware and i came across
these guys now i don't know too much
about pokemon but i know that these
cards are really cool
they're shiny they're dark holographic
but even better than that
i came across these guys ex cards and i
know for a fact
these things were the coolest come
across this
and i know that this is a cool card this
is the
holy grail of pokemon cards if somebody
actually knows anything about pokemon
cards do tell me if this is worth
anything
let me know all right now that i've
nerded out about pokemon for a good
minute
i'm gonna sit down sign in and get
started with this learning
[Music]
all right guys so it's currently the
evening and i've come up onto the roof
in order to watch the sunset we're not
quite tall enough to see everything that
i want but i can actually climb
up over there this staircase here so i'm
gonna do just that
[Music]
definitely looks better from up here
pretty cloudy day but
i think that looks beautiful
[Music]
all right guys good morning today is a
very exciting day we are going to be
going on a three-day adventure going to
the dead sea
if you think i'm swimming weirdly it's
because i am and then
petra look at all of these homes carved
into the side of the mountain i
genuinely i cannot believe it the dead
sea and petra are both two
must-see places if you come here to
jordan which i highly encourage everyone
watching this video to do i'll be
telling you a lot more about them
throughout the day but for now i need to
pack
quite quickly because we're gonna head
out in just under an hour by simpson
don't miss me too much okay
let's go quick little stop before we get
on the highway
to grab some coffee
all right mission accomplished
[Music]
so the dead sea where we're going is the
lowest point on earth
it is 450 meters below sea level
the dead sea is actually not a sea at
all it's in fact a closed lake with only
one tributary going into it from the
jordan river and no
outflow at all and as a result the salt
water concentration is 43
10 times as much as normal seawater
as we approach the dead sea as we
approach the river jordan all the land
becomes extremely extremely fertile
and so all around me here are huge huge
farms of
banana trees look at this look at all
these
bananas here
bananas as far as the eye can see look
how big this
leaf is it's unbelievable
totally on some random person's farm
right now so i hope they don't mind too
much
[Music]
all right guys so we've made it to our
room we're just gonna put on our swim
trunks
and then head down to the dead sea but
before i go
i want to tell you about my favorite
arabic snack it's called um the literal
translation of which
is the moon religion or something like
that basically dried apricot
you can like chew on it's really really
good originally it's made as a drink
that you drink during ramadan
very true all right gonna get dressed
and go down the hotel
is completely empty
it's like a ghost town here
anyone
i just went in for a swim and a little
bump up and down in the
very buoyant water
i'm going to do something very risky for
the biscuit i'm going to take the camera
into the water hope i don't drop it
i'm completely floating without
any effort whatsoever if i turn onto my
oh god okay that was a bad idea if i get
to where it's deep
and i try to go underwater so
it pushes me back up it's like a spring
if you look at it you can see the salt
and if i was to let my hands dry here
for five minutes the soil would be
precipitated on my hands i forgot to
mention
that the mud that you find here in the
dead sea is extremely extremely nutrient
rich
people travel from all over the world to
come get this mud and lather it all over
their bodies
it's known to help get rid of people's
acne all kinds of other skin conditions
all right so i generally find touching
like soap
or like foam mud pottery things like
that i generally have a
big hatred of touching those types of
textures but
i'm gonna go for it i'm here i might as
well put all this mud on me wish me luck
so how do you do it just everywhere i'm
so hairy though
all right am i sufficiently covered in
mud everywhere
i think so this is as much as i'm gonna
put on
[Music]
all right guys it is many hours later
now
we went to have dinner downstairs i had
the
best best lamb it's called mansaf i'll
put a picture of it over here
amazing amazing food and i've been sat
down here in front of my laptop for
almost four hours now finishing off the
edit
for the vlog that you will have seen
last week this is the vlog of me
in dartford it's an absolutely huge one
but i think you guys are gonna like it
anyways i'm exhausted now i'm gonna put
my head on the pillow
go to sleep and catch you guys tomorrow
[Music]
peace
wow
[Music]
if studying for the us emily step one
microbiology section taught me anything
it's don't get into places like this
because of the risk of contracting
niglery fowlery more commonly known as
the brain-eating bacteria
it's so hot and it feels like pebbles
falling on your head
the water is so heavy
and if you go in here apparently the
water's so warm that it's like a sauna
let's go check it out look at how much
smoke is in there
oh my
crazy
oh no that was absolutely amazing
if you ever come to jordan don't forget
to visit this place
i'll leave the location somewhere over
[Music]
here
do you want to say hi to the vlog
[Music]
very cool
all right good morning we have made it
to petra
we're going down the main entranceway
that takes us to the main city
so petra if you don't know is an entire
city dug
into the rock so all of these little
holes that you see here are people's
homes these are people's houses dug
inside the actual rock thousands and
thousands of years ago
[Music]
how beautiful is this
literally dug into the side of the
mountain so now we're walking through
the main entrance to the city of petra
i'm surrounded by these
huge very very tall canyon like
walkways and this was actually formed by
river by water
it's hard to imagine that the level of
the water that used to run through this
canyon
was up there and over millions and
millions of years it slowly eroded its
way down
to the foot level that we're walking at
now absolutely insane
come say hi
[Music]
guys check it out this rock behind me
looks like a big grouper fish
you see that from this angle here
and then if you come here
it looks like an elephant how crazy is
[Music]
that
it's happening the entrance is right
there i can see it through that little
crack
[Music]
[Applause]
uh
[Music]
um
i can't believe i'm here practically
alone
it's literally just me and petra this is
the prize monument of the city of petra
it stands 40 meters tall
and is carved out of a single block of
stone
apparently it was carved from the top
down and these holes that you see on the
side are hand and footholds
that people would use to climb up and
down during the building of this
monument
the name of this monument is al-khazner
which means the treasury
and it's believed that there was
treasure hidden up
here behind this central urn and if you
look closely
i'll show you that people have shot at
this middle urn there are bullet holes
in the monument because people believed
that there was treasure hidden behind it
so they wanted to see if it was actually
inside
believe it or not that's like the first
cool thing that petra has to offer
there's so much further in before we
move on to other exciting things in the
petra let me take a minute to tell you
about the sponsor of today's video
brilliant
brilliant is a problem-solving website
and app with loads of interactive
courses in maths
science and computer science the key
word here is problem solving because
brilliant uses puzzles and challenges in
order to make you actually think about
the topic that's in front of you
brilliant helps you achieve your goals
in stem by starting with one small
commitment to learning and building up
to long-term challenge
and growth i've been telling myself for
ages that i need to learn how to code
and learn about computer science and
brilliant is the perfect way to get me
started all of brilliant courses
have storytelling code writing and
interactive challenges and puzzles that
help you actually grasp and learn an
idea or concept from its roots
critical reasoning and application of
that knowledge is what leads to true
learning brilliant even has an app so
you can use it on the go which is
perfect for me for my commutes to the
hospital if you want to improve your
critical thinking and continue learning
go to brilliant.org
karma medic and sign up for free and the
first 200 people to go to that link will
get 20
off the annual premium subscription all
right guys now back to the vlog
oh my god oh my god oh my god oh my god
so behind me here is the amphitheater of
the city of course shaped like this
because it amplifies sound
that's where we're going
so this peak all the way here
is the tip of the monastery that you
take 1 000 steps
to reach and then behind me here this is
the court so these down here are jails
and up here is the courts where they
would have proceedings and decide what
they would do with people we're breaking
the law
so these around me here are the jail
cells
where they would hold people oh my
goodness
we're climbing the stairs to the courts
up here on my left
all this space carved
into the mountain
look at how straight this wall is
it's perfect yeah it's completely flat
perfectly aligned they start digging
from the top
and they work their way down i feel so
incredibly privileged
to be able to actually enter these
buildings these temples that are
thousands of years old
it's amazing to actually be able to go
inside one and touch it with your own
hands
see it up close please please come to
jordan if you're watching this if you
ever thought about visiting jordan
please come visit it's a beautiful
country there's so much to offer
this mountain range here looks like a
camel you've got the head
over here and then two humps over here
isn't that wild all right so now we've
passed the chasne the treasury
the main monument that you see when
coming to the petra we've also gone to
the courts that i was just at
and now we're going along the pretty big
track
to get to the monastery so the monastery
is about three kilometers into the city
and then one thousand steps up into the
mountains
and you arrive at the monastery that's
twice as big as the treasury that we saw
at the beginning
so very excited to see that
[Music]
so
here behind me begin the 1000 steps
up to the monastery
[Music]
356 257 358 359
360.
all right we've reached the halfway
point
500 more steps
this is gassim he's joining us on our
hike
up to the monastery very cute little kid
somehow walking barefoot
up all these stones and mountains and
there's the same tip
of the monastery that we saw earlier
almost there
i think i'm one step like 700 something
and just like that we made it to the
monastery
twice as wide and taller than the
we saw before beautiful i want to try
and
show you guys on the video just how big
this thing is in just a second
[Music]
all right with the monastery behind us
one last trek
to a view and then we're done
that is without the doubt the vertebrae
kind of scared to approach the edge here
given how
oh my goodness oh my
goodness that is absolutely crazy
all right there's just one thing i have
to do before i go
kings college london
all right on the way down i'm gonna have
a cheeky
right on the donkey when you go down
lean back
back yeah tell you oh god oh god
now i'm with one hand the camera and
one-handed donkey
oh god
[Music]
that was genuinely a roller coaster ride
i was scared all right solo riding
another donkey but this time on flatland
apparently if i lean left i lean right
he knows the way
all right guys i've got my coffee that
is it for petra i'm completely exhausted
i feel like we've walked so much today i
think i'm at 16 000 steps or something
like that
so yeah i'm gonna call it here and i'll
catch up with you guys once i've had
some rest
and i'll catch up with you guys once
i've had some rest
hey guys editing nasser here so i'm just
currently finishing up the edit for this
video it's honestly felt like more of a
documentary than one of my typical
videos here on youtube
it's been absolutely huge so complicated
and just a really difficult edit
honestly i had so much fun filming my
time here in jordan and editing that
experience into this video and i hope
you enjoyed watching it as well if you
did enjoy watching it don't forget to
leave a like on this video and also
subscribe to my channel to more content
from me in the future
and i'll catch you in the next one peace
always have to come back for the camera
this camera was giving me a very warm
welcome
welcome back to another dose
of vloggers
[Music]
foreign
you